PREMIUM_FEATURES.md, before:

# Premium Features v1 - Implementation Status

This document outlines the implementation status of Premium features for Very Simple Inventory.

## Overview

**Pricing**: ₦15,000/month
**Currency**: Nigerian Naira (NGN)
**Timezone**: Africa/Lagos
**Default VAT**: 7.5%

## ✅ Core Infrastructure (COMPLETED)

### 1. Database Schema ✅
- [x] Extended `User` model with `isPremium` flag and `businessAddress`
- [x] Updated `Subscription` model with Stripe fields (stripeCustomerId, stripeSubscriptionId, status, periods)
- [x] Added premium fields to `Item` (photos[], prepBufferDays)
- [x] Added premium fields to `Booking` (taxAmount, totalWithTax, remindersSent[], pickupTime, deliveryTime)
- [x] Added premium fields to `Settings` (taxEnabled, taxInclusive, taxRate, remindersEnabled, notificationsEnabled)
- [x] Added new premium models: Event, Bundle, BundleItem, BookingPhoto, MaintenanceTicket, PricingRule
- [x] Changed default currency to NGN and timezone to Africa/Lagos
- [x] Updated User role system (OWNER, ADMIN, MEMBER for team collaboration)

**Migration**: `prisma/schema.prisma` updated. Run `npx prisma migrate dev --name premium_v1_core` in production.

### 2. Authentication & Session ✅
- [x] Added `isPremium` and `subscriptionStatus` to NextAuth session
- [x] Updated TypeScript types for NextAuth User, Session, and JWT
- [x] Auth callbacks now include premium status based on subscription.status

### 3. Premium Guards & Limits ✅
- [x] Created `app/lib/guards.ts` with comprehensive limit checks
- [x] Updated `app/lib/planLimits.ts` to work with new subscription schema
- [x] Existing limit enforcement already in place for:
  - Items: 15 (free) → unlimited (premium)
  - Customers: 50 (free) → unlimited (premium)
  - Active bookings: 15 (free) → unlimited (premium)
  - Monthly bookings: 25 (free) → unlimited (premium)
  - History: 3 months (free) → unlimited (premium)
  - Photos: 0 (free) → 5 per item (premium)

### 4. Stripe Billing ✅
- [x] Checkout session endpoint (`/api/stripe/create-checkout-session`)
- [x] Customer portal endpoint (`/api/stripe/portal`)
- [x] Webhook handler for subscription events:
  - checkout.session.completed
  - customer.subscription.created/updated/deleted
  - invoice.paid/payment_failed
- [x] Auto-sync `isPremium` flag based on subscription status
- [x] Handles grace periods (trialing, past_due)

### 5. Billing & Premium Pages ✅
- [x] `/billing` page with pricing comparison (Free vs Premium)
- [x] Upgrade flow with Stripe Checkout integration
- [x] Manage Billing button for premium users (Stripe portal)
- [x] `/premium` page with all 17 premium features listed
- [x] **Removed all "Coming soon" placeholders**
- [x] Real pricing (₦15,000/month) displayed

### 6. Utility Helpers ✅
- [x] Tax calculation (`app/lib/tax.ts`):
  - calculateTax() for VAT 7.5%
  - Supports tax-inclusive and tax-exclusive pricing
  - formatCurrency() for NGN formatting
- [x] Export utilities (`app/lib/exports.ts`):
  - CSV generation for items, customers, bookings, payments
  - Download helpers with Nigerian locale
- [x] Email templates (`app/lib/email.ts`):
  - Upcoming rental reminders
  - Return reminders
  - Payment reminders
  - Payment receipts
  - Inquiry notifications

### 7. Components ✅
- [x] `UpgradeModal` component for limit prompts
  - Shows current usage vs limit
  - Displays premium benefits
  - Links to /billing for upgrade

### 8. Environment Configuration ✅
- [x] Comprehensive `.env.example` with all required API keys:
  - Stripe (billing)
  - Resend (emails)
  - Google Geocoding (optional, for events)
  - Eventbrite (optional, for events data)
  - Paystack (optional, for NGN payments)
  - Twilio (optional, for SMS)
  - Vercel Blob/AWS S3 (optional, for photo storage)

## 🚧 Premium Features - Implementation Status

### Feature 1: Tax Calculator ✅ (Core Ready)
**Status**: Core utilities ready, needs UI integration

**Completed**:
- Tax calculation helpers with 7.5% VAT default
- Support for tax-inclusive and tax-exclusive pricing
- Database fields for taxAmount and totalWithTax in Booking
- Settings fields for taxEnabled, taxInclusive, taxRate

**TODO**:
- [ ] Add tax configuration UI to `/settings` page
- [ ] Integrate tax calculation in booking creation/edit flows
- [ ] Display tax breakdown on invoices and booking details
- [ ] Add tax column to exports

### Feature 2: Events Near You ⏳ (Not Implemented)
**Status**: Database ready, needs implementation

**Completed**:
- Event model in database schema
- Environment variables documented

**TODO**:
- [ ] Create `/events` page (premium only)
- [ ] Implement cron job `/api/cron/events/route.ts` to fetch events
- [ ] Add geocoding for user business address
- [ ] Integrate Eventbrite API or static seed data
- [ ] Distance filtering using Haversine formula
- [ ] Date range and category filters

### Feature 3: Custom Analytics ⏳ (Not Implemented)
**Status**: Not started

**TODO**:
- [ ] Create `/analytics` page (premium only)
- [ ] Revenue by month chart (Recharts)
- [ ] Top items by booking frequency
- [ ] Utilization rate (reserved/total) per item
- [ ] Overdue balances tracking
- [ ] Repeat customer analysis
- [ ] Export buttons (CSV/PDF) using existing export utils
- [ ] Free users: show 30-day snapshot only (no exports)

### Feature 4: Online Payments (Stripe) ⏳ (Partial)
**Status**: Infrastructure ready, needs payment intent flow

**Completed**:
- Stripe billing infrastructure
- Payment model in database
- Email receipt templates

**TODO**:
- [ ] Create `/api/payments/create-intent/route.ts` for payment intents
- [ ] Add "Pay Balance" button on booking details (premium only)
- [ ] Implement Stripe Elements integration (client-side)
- [ ] Handle payment_intent.succeeded webhook
- [ ] Create Payment record and update booking balance
- [ ] Send payment receipt email via Resend

### Feature 5: Customer Reminders ⏳ (Templates Ready)
**Status**: Email templates ready, needs cron job

**Completed**:
- Email templates for all reminder types
- remindersSent[] field in Booking model
- Settings toggle for remindersEnabled

**TODO**:
- [ ] Create `/api/cron/reminders/route.ts` (daily cron)
- [ ] Scan for upcoming rentals (start - 3 days)
- [ ] Scan for return reminders (end + 1 day)
- [ ] Scan for payment due (paymentDueDate - 2 days)
- [ ] Update remindersSent array to prevent duplicates
- [ ] Add reminder settings UI to `/settings`

### Feature 6: Smart Notifications (Low Stock, Overdue) ⏳ (Not Implemented)
**Status**: Not started

**TODO**:
- [ ] Create `/api/notifications/low-stock/route.ts`
- [ ] Trigger on booking creation if item totalQuantity drops below lowStockThreshold
- [ ] Send email using existing email helper
- [ ] Create `/api/notifications/overdue/route.ts`
- [ ] Scan for bookings past return date with outstanding balance
- [ ] Settings toggle for notificationsEnabled

### Feature 7: Public Booking Page ✅ (Existing)
**Status**: Already implemented, needs premium gating

**Note**: Public page already exists at `/public/[slug]` with PublicPage and PublicInquiry models. Just needs to be gated behind premium check.

**TODO**:
- [ ] Add premium check to public page creation
- [ ] Hide public page features for free users
- [ ] Add inquiry notification email integration

### Feature 8: Team Collaboration ⏳ (Schema Ready)
**Status**: Database ready, needs implementation

**Completed**:
- User role system (OWNER, ADMIN, MEMBER)
- ownerId field for team member relationships

**TODO**:
- [ ] Create `/team` page (premium only)
- [ ] Create `/api/team/invite/route.ts` for invitations
- [ ] Implement role-based permission guards in APIs
- [ ] Limit to 5 team members for premium
- [ ] Email invitations using Resend
- [ ] Team member management UI

### Feature 9: Photo Condition & Damage Log ⏳ (Schema Ready)
**Status**: Database ready, needs upload implementation

**Completed**:
- photos[] field on Item model
- BookingPhoto model for damage logging
- Photo upload limit checks (0 free, 5 premium)

**TODO**:
- [ ] Integrate Vercel Blob or AWS S3 for photo storage
- [ ] Create `/api/upload/photo/route.ts` endpoint
- [ ] Add photo upload UI to item create/edit
- [ ] Add damage photo upload on booking return
- [ ] Image compression and optimization
- [ ] Photo gallery component

### Feature 10: QR/Barcode Check-in/out ⏳ (Not Implemented)
**Status**: Not started

**TODO**:
- [ ] Generate QR codes for each item (library: qrcode)
- [ ] Create "Print Label" modal on item detail page
- [ ] Create `/checkin` page with camera scanner (library: html5-qrcode)
- [ ] Scan QR to add items to booking (OUT status)
- [ ] Scan QR to return items (RETURNED status)
- [ ] Update item quantities on scan

### Feature 11: Bundles/Kits ⏳ (Schema Ready)
**Status**: Database ready, needs implementation

**Completed**:
- Bundle and BundleItem models

**TODO**:
- [ ] Create `/bundles` page (premium only)
- [ ] Create `/api/bundles/route.ts` endpoints (CRUD)
- [ ] Bundle creation UI (select items + quantities)
- [ ] Availability checking sums component item availability
- [ ] Add bundle to booking as single line item
- [ ] Expand bundle to show components in booking details

### Feature 12: Delivery/Pickup Scheduler ⏳ (Schema Ready)
**Status**: Database ready, needs UI

**Completed**:
- pickupTime and deliveryTime fields on Booking

**TODO**:
- [ ] Add pickup/delivery time pickers to booking creation
- [ ] Create `/logistics` page showing today's deliveries/pickups
- [ ] Sort by time
- [ ] Show customer contact buttons (call, WhatsApp)
- [ ] Calendar view integration

### Feature 13: Dynamic Pricing Rules ⏳ (Schema Ready)
**Status**: Database ready, needs implementation

**Completed**:
- PricingRule model

**TODO**:
- [ ] Create `/pricing-rules` page (premium only)
- [ ] Create `/api/pricing-rules/route.ts` endpoints (CRUD)
- [ ] Rule types: weekend, holiday, long_rental, category
- [ ] Apply multipliers during price calculation
- [ ] Preview pricing with rules applied
- [ ] Allow manual overrides in booking

### Feature 14: Turnaround/Prep Buffers ⏳ (Schema Ready)
**Status**: Database ready, needs calendar integration

**Completed**:
- prepBufferDays field on Item

**TODO**:
- [ ] Add prepBufferDays field to item create/edit UI
- [ ] Update availability calculation to account for prep buffer
- [ ] Block calendar dates between bookings (FullCalendar overlay)
- [ ] Visual indicator for buffer periods

### Feature 15: Maintenance Tickets ⏳ (Schema Ready)
**Status**: Database ready, needs implementation

**Completed**:
- MaintenanceTicket model

**TODO**:
- [ ] Create `/maintenance` page (premium only)
- [ ] Create `/api/maintenance/route.ts` endpoints (CRUD)
- [ ] Flag item "needs service" button
- [ ] Block item from availability when open ticket exists
- [ ] Attach photos to tickets
- [ ] Resolution workflow (mark as resolved)
- [ ] Maintenance history per item

### Feature 16: Exports (CSV/Excel) ✅ (Core Ready)
**Status**: Core utilities ready, needs UI integration

**Completed**:
- Export utilities for items, customers, bookings, payments
- CSV generation with NGN formatting
- Download helpers

**TODO**:
- [ ] Add export buttons to `/inventory`, `/customers`, `/bookings`, `/analytics` pages
- [ ] Gate exports behind premium check
- [ ] Show "Upgrade to export" message for free users
- [ ] Add export date range selector

### Feature 17: Priority Support ✅ (Existing)
**Status**: Already referenced in billing/premium pages

**TODO**:
- [ ] Add support section to `/settings`
- [ ] Show WhatsApp link for premium users
- [ ] Show priority email for premium users
- [ ] Free users see standard email only

## 🎯 Deployment Checklist

### Before Deployment

1. **Environment Variables** (Vercel):
   ```bash
   # Required
   DATABASE_URL=postgresql://...
   DATABASE_URL_UNPOOLED=postgresql://...
   NEXTAUTH_SECRET=...
   NEXTAUTH_URL=https://verysimpleinventory.com
   APP_URL=https://verysimpleinventory.com

   # Stripe (Premium billing)
   STRIPE_SECRET_KEY=sk_live_...
   STRIPE_PRICE_ID=price_... # Monthly subscription product
   STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET=whsec_...

   # Resend (Emails)
   RESEND_API_KEY=re_...
   EMAIL_FROM_ADDRESS=noreply@verysimpleinventory.com
   ```

2. **Database Migration**:
   ```bash
   npx prisma migrate deploy
   npx prisma generate
   ```

3. **Stripe Setup**:
   - Create Product: "Premium Plan" at ₦15,000/month
   - Copy Price ID to `STRIPE_PRICE_ID`
   - Configure webhook endpoint: `https://verysimpleinventory.com/api/stripe/webhook`
   - Copy webhook secret to `STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET`
   - Test subscription flow in Stripe test mode first

4. **DNS & Emails**:
   - Configure Resend domain: verysimpleinventory.com
   - Verify DNS records (SPF, DKIM)
   - Test email delivery

### Post-Deployment Testing

- [ ] Sign up as new user (should be free plan)
- [ ] Hit free limits (15 items, 50 customers, 15 bookings)
- [ ] Verify upgrade modal appears
- [ ] Complete Stripe checkout (test mode)
- [ ] Verify isPremium=true after webhook
- [ ] Test cancellation flow
- [ ] Verify isPremium=false after cancellation
- [ ] Test all limit removals for premium users

## 📝 API Keys Needed

To enable all 17 features, obtain these API keys:

### Required (Core Premium)
1. **Stripe** - Billing & payments (https://dashboard.stripe.com/apikeys)
   - STRIPE_SECRET_KEY
   - STRIPE_PRICE_ID
   - STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET

2. **Resend** - Email reminders & receipts (https://resend.com/api-keys)
   - RESEND_API_KEY

### Optional (Enhanced Features)
3. **Google Geocoding** - Events Near You (https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials)
   - GOOGLE_GEOCODING_API_KEY

4. **Eventbrite** - Event data source
   - EVENTBRITE_API_KEY

5. **Twilio** - SMS notifications (https://www.twilio.com/console)
   - TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID
   - TWILIO_AUTH_TOKEN
   - TWILIO_PHONE_NUMBER

6. **Vercel Blob** - Photo storage (auto on Vercel) or AWS S3
   - BLOB_READ_WRITE_TOKEN (Vercel)
   - Or: AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID, AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY, AWS_S3_BUCKET

## 🚀 Quick Start (Development)

```bash
# 1. Install dependencies
npm install

# 2. Set up environment
cp .env.example .env.local
# Edit .env.local with your API keys

# 3. Run database migrations
npx prisma migrate dev

# 4. Start development server
npm run dev

# 5. Test Stripe webhooks locally (separate terminal)
stripe listen --forward-to localhost:3000/api/stripe/webhook
# Copy webhook secret to STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET in .env.local
```

## 📊 Implementation Progress

**Core Infrastructure**: 100% ✅
**Billing & Payments**: 90% ✅ (payment intents pending)
**Premium Features**: 35% 🚧

**Total Completion**: ~55%

### Ready to Ship Now ✅
- Stripe billing (checkout, portal, webhooks)
- Free plan limits enforcement
- Billing and premium pages (no placeholders)
- Tax calculation utilities
- Export utilities (CSV)
- Email templates (reminders, receipts)
- UpgradeModal component
- All database schema changes

### Needs Implementation 🚧
See individual feature status above. Priority order:
1. Tax Calculator UI integration (highest impact)
2. Customer Reminders cron job
3. Online Payment Intents
4. Custom Analytics page
5. Photo uploads (Vercel Blob)
6. Smart Notifications
7. Team Collaboration
8. QR Check-in/out
9. Events Near You
10. Bundles/Kits
11. Remaining features

## 📚 Additional Resources

- Stripe Documentation: https://stripe.com/docs/billing/subscriptions/overview
- Resend Documentation: https://resend.com/docs
- Next.js App Router: https://nextjs.org/docs/app
- Prisma Documentation: https://www.prisma.io/docs

---

**Last Updated**: 2025-11-17
**Branch**: `claude/premium-features-branch-01HVe4fCcSFPtxArvykk1kLM`

Commit message:

docs: document graceful error handling for missing API keys
- Add 'Graceful Degradation' section to deployment checklist
- Clarify that app can be deployed without premium API keys
- Free plan works perfectly without Stripe or Resend
- Update environment variables section: REQUIRED vs OPTIONAL
- Note that premium keys can be added later when ready
- Document specific error messages users will see

PREMIUM_FEATURES.md, after:

# Premium Features v1 - Implementation Status

This document outlines the implementation status of Premium features for Very Simple Inventory.

## Overview

**Pricing**: ₦15,000/month
**Currency**: Nigerian Naira (NGN)
**Timezone**: Africa/Lagos
**Default VAT**: 7.5%

## ✅ Core Infrastructure (COMPLETED)

### 1. Database Schema ✅
- [x] Extended `User` model with `isPremium` flag and `businessAddress`
- [x] Updated `Subscription` model with Stripe fields (stripeCustomerId, stripeSubscriptionId, status, periods)
- [x] Added premium fields to `Item` (photos[], prepBufferDays)
- [x] Added premium fields to `Booking` (taxAmount, totalWithTax, remindersSent[], pickupTime, deliveryTime)
- [x] Added premium fields to `Settings` (taxEnabled, taxInclusive, taxRate, remindersEnabled, notificationsEnabled)
- [x] Added new premium models: Event, Bundle, BundleItem, BookingPhoto, MaintenanceTicket, PricingRule
- [x] Changed default currency to NGN and timezone to Africa/Lagos
- [x] Updated User role system (OWNER, ADMIN, MEMBER for team collaboration)

**Migration**: `prisma/schema.prisma` updated. Run `npx prisma migrate dev --name premium_v1_core` in production.

### 2. Authentication & Session ✅
- [x] Added `isPremium` and `subscriptionStatus` to NextAuth session
- [x] Updated TypeScript types for NextAuth User, Session, and JWT
- [x] Auth callbacks now include premium status based on subscription.status

### 3. Premium Guards & Limits ✅
- [x] Created `app/lib/guards.ts` with comprehensive limit checks
- [x] Updated `app/lib/planLimits.ts` to work with new subscription schema
- [x] Existing limit enforcement already in place for:
  - Items: 15 (free) → unlimited (premium)
  - Customers: 50 (free) → unlimited (premium)
  - Active bookings: 15 (free) → unlimited (premium)
  - Monthly bookings: 25 (free) → unlimited (premium)
  - History: 3 months (free) → unlimited (premium)
  - Photos: 0 (free) → 5 per item (premium)

### 4. Stripe Billing ✅
- [x] Checkout session endpoint (`/api/stripe/create-checkout-session`)
- [x] Customer portal endpoint (`/api/stripe/portal`)
- [x] Webhook handler for subscription events:
  - checkout.session.completed
  - customer.subscription.created/updated/deleted
  - invoice.paid/payment_failed
- [x] Auto-sync `isPremium` flag based on subscription status
- [x] Handles grace periods (trialing, past_due)

### 5. Billing & Premium Pages ✅
- [x] `/billing` page with pricing comparison (Free vs Premium)
- [x] Upgrade flow with Stripe Checkout integration
- [x] Manage Billing button for premium users (Stripe portal)
- [x] `/premium` page with all 17 premium features listed
- [x] **Removed all "Coming soon" placeholders**
- [x] Real pricing (₦15,000/month) displayed

### 6. Utility Helpers ✅
- [x] Tax calculation (`app/lib/tax.ts`):
  - calculateTax() for VAT 7.5%
  - Supports tax-inclusive and tax-exclusive pricing
  - formatCurrency() for NGN formatting
- [x] Export utilities (`app/lib/exports.ts`):
  - CSV generation for items, customers, bookings, payments
  - Download helpers with Nigerian locale
- [x] Email templates (`app/lib/email.ts`):
  - Upcoming rental reminders
  - Return reminders
  - Payment reminders
  - Payment receipts
  - Inquiry notifications

### 7. Components ✅
- [x] `UpgradeModal` component for limit prompts
  - Shows current usage vs limit
  - Displays premium benefits
  - Links to /billing for upgrade

### 8. Environment Configuration ✅
- [x] Comprehensive `.env.example` with all required API keys:
  - Stripe (billing)
  - Resend (emails)
  - Google Geocoding (optional, for events)
  - Eventbrite (optional, for events data)
  - Paystack (optional, for NGN payments)
  - Twilio (optional, for SMS)
  - Vercel Blob/AWS S3 (optional, for photo storage)

## 🚧 Premium Features - Implementation Status

### Feature 1: Tax Calculator ✅ (Core Ready)
**Status**: Core utilities ready, needs UI integration

**Completed**:
- Tax calculation helpers with 7.5% VAT default
- Support for tax-inclusive and tax-exclusive pricing
- Database fields for taxAmount and totalWithTax in Booking
- Settings fields for taxEnabled, taxInclusive, taxRate

**TODO**:
- [ ] Add tax configuration UI to `/settings` page
- [ ] Integrate tax calculation in booking creation/edit flows
- [ ] Display tax breakdown on invoices and booking details
- [ ] Add tax column to exports

### Feature 2: Events Near You ⏳ (Not Implemented)
**Status**: Database ready, needs implementation

**Completed**:
- Event model in database schema
- Environment variables documented

**TODO**:
- [ ] Create `/events` page (premium only)
- [ ] Implement cron job `/api/cron/events/route.ts` to fetch events
- [ ] Add geocoding for user business address
- [ ] Integrate Eventbrite API or static seed data
- [ ] Distance filtering using Haversine formula
- [ ] Date range and category filters

### Feature 3: Custom Analytics ⏳ (Not Implemented)
**Status**: Not started

**TODO**:
- [ ] Create `/analytics` page (premium only)
- [ ] Revenue by month chart (Recharts)
- [ ] Top items by booking frequency
- [ ] Utilization rate (reserved/total) per item
- [ ] Overdue balances tracking
- [ ] Repeat customer analysis
- [ ] Export buttons (CSV/PDF) using existing export utils
- [ ] Free users: show 30-day snapshot only (no exports)

### Feature 4: Online Payments (Stripe) ⏳ (Partial)
**Status**: Infrastructure ready, needs payment intent flow

**Completed**:
- Stripe billing infrastructure
- Payment model in database
- Email receipt templates

**TODO**:
- [ ] Create `/api/payments/create-intent/route.ts` for payment intents
- [ ] Add "Pay Balance" button on booking details (premium only)
- [ ] Implement Stripe Elements integration (client-side)
- [ ] Handle payment_intent.succeeded webhook
- [ ] Create Payment record and update booking balance
- [ ] Send payment receipt email via Resend

### Feature 5: Customer Reminders ⏳ (Templates Ready)
**Status**: Email templates ready, needs cron job

**Completed**:
- Email templates for all reminder types
- remindersSent[] field in Booking model
- Settings toggle for remindersEnabled

**TODO**:
- [ ] Create `/api/cron/reminders/route.ts` (daily cron)
- [ ] Scan for upcoming rentals (start - 3 days)
- [ ] Scan for return reminders (end + 1 day)
- [ ] Scan for payment due (paymentDueDate - 2 days)
- [ ] Update remindersSent array to prevent duplicates
- [ ] Add reminder settings UI to `/settings`

### Feature 6: Smart Notifications (Low Stock, Overdue) ⏳ (Not Implemented)
**Status**: Not started

**TODO**:
- [ ] Create `/api/notifications/low-stock/route.ts`
- [ ] Trigger on booking creation if item totalQuantity drops below lowStockThreshold
- [ ] Send email using existing email helper
- [ ] Create `/api/notifications/overdue/route.ts`
- [ ] Scan for bookings past return date with outstanding balance
- [ ] Settings toggle for notificationsEnabled

### Feature 7: Public Booking Page ✅ (Existing)
**Status**: Already implemented, needs premium gating

**Note**: Public page already exists at `/public/[slug]` with PublicPage and PublicInquiry models. Just needs to be gated behind premium check.

**TODO**:
- [ ] Add premium check to public page creation
- [ ] Hide public page features for free users
- [ ] Add inquiry notification email integration

### Feature 8: Team Collaboration ⏳ (Schema Ready)
**Status**: Database ready, needs implementation

**Completed**:
- User role system (OWNER, ADMIN, MEMBER)
- ownerId field for team member relationships

**TODO**:
- [ ] Create `/team` page (premium only)
- [ ] Create `/api/team/invite/route.ts` for invitations
- [ ] Implement role-based permission guards in APIs
- [ ] Limit to 5 team members for premium
- [ ] Email invitations using Resend
- [ ] Team member management UI

### Feature 9: Photo Condition & Damage Log ⏳ (Schema Ready)
**Status**: Database ready, needs upload implementation

**Completed**:
- photos[] field on Item model
- BookingPhoto model for damage logging
- Photo upload limit checks (0 free, 5 premium)

**TODO**:
- [ ] Integrate Vercel Blob or AWS S3 for photo storage
- [ ] Create `/api/upload/photo/route.ts` endpoint
- [ ] Add photo upload UI to item create/edit
- [ ] Add damage photo upload on booking return
- [ ] Image compression and optimization
- [ ] Photo gallery component

### Feature 10: QR/Barcode Check-in/out ⏳ (Not Implemented)
**Status**: Not started

**TODO**:
- [ ] Generate QR codes for each item (library: qrcode)
- [ ] Create "Print Label" modal on item detail page
- [ ] Create `/checkin` page with camera scanner (library: html5-qrcode)
- [ ] Scan QR to add items to booking (OUT status)
- [ ] Scan QR to return items (RETURNED status)
- [ ] Update item quantities on scan

### Feature 11: Bundles/Kits ⏳ (Schema Ready)
**Status**: Database ready, needs implementation

**Completed**:
- Bundle and BundleItem models

**TODO**:
- [ ] Create `/bundles` page (premium only)
- [ ] Create `/api/bundles/route.ts` endpoints (CRUD)
- [ ] Bundle creation UI (select items + quantities)
- [ ] Availability checking sums component item availability
- [ ] Add bundle to booking as single line item
- [ ] Expand bundle to show components in booking details

### Feature 12: Delivery/Pickup Scheduler ⏳ (Schema Ready)
**Status**: Database ready, needs UI

**Completed**:
- pickupTime and deliveryTime fields on Booking

**TODO**:
- [ ] Add pickup/delivery time pickers to booking creation
- [ ] Create `/logistics` page showing today's deliveries/pickups
- [ ] Sort by time
- [ ] Show customer contact buttons (call, WhatsApp)
- [ ] Calendar view integration

### Feature 13: Dynamic Pricing Rules ⏳ (Schema Ready)
**Status**: Database ready, needs implementation

**Completed**:
- PricingRule model

**TODO**:
- [ ] Create `/pricing-rules` page (premium only)
- [ ] Create `/api/pricing-rules/route.ts` endpoints (CRUD)
- [ ] Rule types: weekend, holiday, long_rental, category
- [ ] Apply multipliers during price calculation
- [ ] Preview pricing with rules applied
- [ ] Allow manual overrides in booking

### Feature 14: Turnaround/Prep Buffers ⏳ (Schema Ready)
**Status**: Database ready, needs calendar integration

**Completed**:
- prepBufferDays field on Item

**TODO**:
- [ ] Add prepBufferDays field to item create/edit UI
- [ ] Update availability calculation to account for prep buffer
- [ ] Block calendar dates between bookings (FullCalendar overlay)
- [ ] Visual indicator for buffer periods

### Feature 15: Maintenance Tickets ⏳ (Schema Ready)
**Status**: Database ready, needs implementation

**Completed**:
- MaintenanceTicket model

**TODO**:
- [ ] Create `/maintenance` page (premium only)
- [ ] Create `/api/maintenance/route.ts` endpoints (CRUD)
- [ ] Flag item "needs service" button
- [ ] Block item from availability when open ticket exists
- [ ] Attach photos to tickets
- [ ] Resolution workflow (mark as resolved)
- [ ] Maintenance history per item

### Feature 16: Exports (CSV/Excel) ✅ (Core Ready)
**Status**: Core utilities ready, needs UI integration

**Completed**:
- Export utilities for items, customers, bookings, payments
- CSV generation with NGN formatting
- Download helpers

**TODO**:
- [ ] Add export buttons to `/inventory`, `/customers`, `/bookings`, `/analytics` pages
- [ ] Gate exports behind premium check
- [ ] Show "Upgrade to export" message for free users
- [ ] Add export date range selector

### Feature 17: Priority Support ✅ (Existing)
**Status**: Already referenced in billing/premium pages

**TODO**:
- [ ] Add support section to `/settings`
- [ ] Show WhatsApp link for premium users
- [ ] Show priority email for premium users
- [ ] Free users see standard email only

## 🎯 Deployment Checklist

### ✨ Graceful Degradation (NEW!)

The application **fails gracefully** if premium API keys are missing:

- ✅ **Stripe not configured**: Upgrade buttons show "Billing not configured. Please contact support." (503 status)
- ✅ **Resend not configured**: Emails are skipped with warning logs (no crashes)
- ✅ **Optional APIs missing**: Features are disabled but app continues working
- ✅ **Users can navigate back**: No crashes, clear error messages, redirect to previous page

**You can deploy without premium keys!** The free plan works perfectly without Stripe or Resend. Add keys later when ready.

### Before Deployment

1. **Environment Variables** (Vercel):
   ```bash
   # ===== REQUIRED (Core App) =====
   DATABASE_URL=postgresql://...
   DATABASE_URL_UNPOOLED=postgresql://...
   NEXTAUTH_SECRET=...
   NEXTAUTH_URL=https://verysimpleinventory.com
   APP_URL=https://verysimpleinventory.com

   # ===== OPTIONAL (Add later for Premium features) =====

   # Stripe (Premium billing) - Can add later
   STRIPE_SECRET_KEY=sk_live_...
   STRIPE_PRICE_ID=price_... # Monthly subscription product
   STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET=whsec_...

   # Resend (Email reminders) - Can add later
   RESEND_API_KEY=re_...
   EMAIL_FROM_ADDRESS=noreply@verysimpleinventory.com
   ```

2. **Database Migration**:
   ```bash
   npx prisma migrate deploy
   npx prisma generate
   ```

3. **Stripe Setup**:
   - Create Product: "Premium Plan" at ₦15,000/month
   - Copy Price ID to `STRIPE_PRICE_ID`
   - Configure webhook endpoint: `https://verysimpleinventory.com/api/stripe/webhook`
   - Copy webhook secret to `STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET`
   - Test subscription flow in Stripe test mode first

4. **DNS & Emails**:
   - Configure Resend domain: verysimpleinventory.com
   - Verify DNS records (SPF, DKIM)
   - Test email delivery

### Post-Deployment Testing

- [ ] Sign up as new user (should be free plan)
- [ ] Hit free limits (15 items, 50 customers, 15 bookings)
- [ ] Verify upgrade modal appears
- [ ] Complete Stripe checkout (test mode)
- [ ] Verify isPremium=true after webhook
- [ ] Test cancellation flow
- [ ] Verify isPremium=false after cancellation
- [ ] Test all limit removals for premium users

## 📝 API Keys Needed

To enable all 17 features, obtain these API keys:

### Required (Core Premium)
1. **Stripe** - Billing & payments (https://dashboard.stripe.com/apikeys)
   - STRIPE_SECRET_KEY
   - STRIPE_PRICE_ID
   - STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET

2. **Resend** - Email reminders & receipts (https://resend.com/api-keys)
   - RESEND_API_KEY

### Optional (Enhanced Features)
3. **Google Geocoding** - Events Near You (https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials)
   - GOOGLE_GEOCODING_API_KEY

4. **Eventbrite** - Event data source
   - EVENTBRITE_API_KEY

5. **Twilio** - SMS notifications (https://www.twilio.com/console)
   - TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID
   - TWILIO_AUTH_TOKEN
   - TWILIO_PHONE_NUMBER

6. **Vercel Blob** - Photo storage (auto on Vercel) or AWS S3
   - BLOB_READ_WRITE_TOKEN (Vercel)
   - Or: AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID, AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY, AWS_S3_BUCKET

## 🚀 Quick Start (Development)

```bash
# 1. Install dependencies
npm install

# 2. Set up environment
cp .env.example .env.local
# Edit .env.local with your API keys

# 3. Run database migrations
npx prisma migrate dev

# 4. Start development server
npm run dev

# 5. Test Stripe webhooks locally (separate terminal)
stripe listen --forward-to localhost:3000/api/stripe/webhook
# Copy webhook secret to STRIPE_WEBHOOK_SECRET in .env.local
```

## 📊 Implementation Progress

**Core Infrastructure**: 100% ✅
**Billing & Payments**: 90% ✅ (payment intents pending)
**Premium Features**: 35% 🚧

**Total Completion**: ~55%

### Ready to Ship Now ✅
- Stripe billing (checkout, portal, webhooks)
- Free plan limits enforcement
- Billing and premium pages (no placeholders)
- Tax calculation utilities
- Export utilities (CSV)
- Email templates (reminders, receipts)
- UpgradeModal component
- All database schema changes

### Needs Implementation 🚧
See individual feature status above. Priority order:
1. Tax Calculator UI integration (highest impact)
2. Customer Reminders cron job
3. Online Payment Intents
4. Custom Analytics page
5. Photo uploads (Vercel Blob)
6. Smart Notifications
7. Team Collaboration
8. QR Check-in/out
9. Events Near You
10. Bundles/Kits
11. Remaining features

## 📚 Additional Resources

- Stripe Documentation: https://stripe.com/docs/billing/subscriptions/overview
- Resend Documentation: https://resend.com/docs
- Next.js App Router: https://nextjs.org/docs/app
- Prisma Documentation: https://www.prisma.io/docs

---

**Last Updated**: 2025-11-17
**Branch**: `claude/premium-features-branch-01HVe4fCcSFPtxArvykk1kLM`
